Write a note on: Guiseppe Mazzini ; During the 1830s, Giuseppe Mazzini had sought to put together a coherent programme for the unitary Italian Republic. He had also formed a secret society called ‘Young Italy’ for the dissemination of his goals ;
Write a note on: Count Camillo de Cavour ; Led the movement to unify Italy. He was neither a revolutionary nor a democrat. Through a tactful diplomatic alliance engineered by Cavour, Sardinia-Piedmont succeeded in defeating the Austrian forces in 1859 ;
Write a note on: The Greek war of independence ; Greece had been part of the Ottoman Empire since the fifteenth century. The growth of revolutionary nationalism in Europe sparked off a struggle for independence amongst the Greeks, which began in 1821. Poets and artists lauded Greece as the cradle of European civilisation and mobilised public opinion to support its struggle against a Muslim empire. Nationalists in Greece got support from other Greeks living in exile and also from many West Europeans, who had sympathies for ancient Greek culture. Finally, the Treaty of Constantinople of 1832 recognised Greece as an independent nation ;
Write a note on: Frankfurt parliament ; It was an all-German National assembly formed by middle-class professionals, businessmen and prosperous artisans belonging to different German regions. It was convened on 18 May 1848. It was disbanded on 31 May 1849 as it lost support;
Write a note on: The role of women in nationalist struggles ; Women of the liberal middle classes combined their demands for constitutionalism with national unification. They took advantage of the growing popular unrest to push their demands for the creation of a nation-state on parliamentary principles – a constitution, freedom of the press and freedom of association. Women had formed their own political associations, founded newspapers and taken part in political meetings and demonstrations ;
What steps did the French revolutionaries take to create a sense of collective identity among the French people? ; The ideas of ‘La Patrie’ (the fatherland) and ‘Le Citoyen’ (the citizen) emphasised the notion of a united community enjoying equal rights under a constitution. A new French flag, the tricolour, was chosen to replace the former royal standard. New hymns were composed, oaths taken and martyrs commemorated, all in the name of the nation. A centralised administrative system was put in place, and it formulated uniform laws for all citizens within its territory. Internal customs duties and dues were abolished, and a uniform system of weights and measures was adopted. Regional dialects were discouraged and French, as it was spoken and written in Paris, became the common language of the nation. The revolutionaries further declared that it was the mission and the destiny of the French nation to liberate the peoples of Europe from despotism. In other words, to help other peoples of Europe to become nations ;
Who were Marianne and Germania? What was the importance of the way in which they were portrayed? ; Female allegories were invented by artists in the nineteenth century to represent the nation. Marianne, a popular Christian name – underlined the idea of a people’s nation. Her characteristics were drawn from those of Liberty and the Republic – the red cap, the tricolour, the cockade. Statues of Marianne were erected in public squares to remind the public of the national symbol of unity and to persuade them to identify with it. The image of Marianne was marked on coins and stamps. Germania became the allegory of the German nation. In visual representations, Germania wears a crown of oak leaves, as the German oak stands for heroism ; 
